Quick-start build instructions
------------------------------
1) Configure the package:

	./configure

2) Compile it:

	make

3) Install it:

	make install

This final step may require temporary root access (eg. with sudo) if
you don't have write permission to the directory in which cairo will
be installed.

NOTE: If you are working with source from git/cvs rather than from a tar
file, then you should use ./autogen.sh in place of ./configure
anywhere it is mentioned in these instructions.

More detailed build instructions
--------------------------------

1) Configure the package

   The first step in building cairo is to configure the package by
   running the configure script. The configure script attempts to
   automatically detect as much as possible about your system. So,
   you should primarily just accept its defaults by running:

	./configure

   The configure script does accept a large number of options for
   fine-tuning its behavior. See "./configure --help" for a complete
   list. The most commonly used options are discussed here.

   --prefix=PREFIX

	This option specifies the directory under which the software
	should be installed. By default configure will choose a
	directory such as /usr/local. If you would like to install
	cairo to some other location, pass the director to configure
	with the --prefix option. For example:

		./configure --prefix=/opt/cairo

	would install cairo into the /opt/cairo directory. You could
	also choose a prefix directory within your home directory if
	you don't have write access to any system-wide directory.

	After installing into a custom prefix, you will need to set
	some environment variables to allow the software to be
	found. Assuming the /opt/cairo prefix and assuming you are
	using the bash shell, the following environment variables
	should be set:

		PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/opt/cairo/lib/pkgconfig
		LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/cairo/lib
		export PKG_CONFIG_PATH LD_LIBRARY_PATH

	(NOTE: On mac OS X, at least, use DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH in place
	       of LD_LIBRARY_PATH above.)

    --enable-quartz
    --enable-atsui
    --enable-xcb
    --enable-glitz
    --enable-beos
    --enable-os2
    --enable-directfb

	Some of cairo's backends are marked as experimental and will
	not be built by default. If you would like to build and
	experiment with these backends, you will need to pass one of
	the above options to the configure script. You may need to
	have certain libraries installed first as discussed in the
	dependencies section of the README file.

    --disable-xlib
    --disable-win32
    --disable-png
    --disable-freetype
    --disable-ps
    --disable-pdf
    --disable-svg

	Cairo's configure script detects the libraries needed to build
	each stable backend, and when it finds them, enables each
	backend. If you would like to override this detection and
	disable a backend, (even when it would be possible to build
	it), use one of the options above to disable the backend.

2) Compile the package:

   This step is very simple. Just:

	make

   The Makefiles included with cairo are designed to work on as many
   different systems as possible.

   When cairo is compiled, you can also run some automated tests of
   cairo with:

	make check

   NOTE: Some versions of X servers will cause the -xlib tests to
   report failures in make check even when cairo is working just
   fine. If you see failures in nothing but -xlib tests, please
   examine the corresponding -xlib-out.png images and compare them to
   the -ref.png reference images (the -xlib-diff.png images might also
   be useful). If the results seem "close enough" please do not report
   a bug against cairo as the "failures" you are seeing are just due
   to subtle variations in X server implementations.

3) Install the package:

   The final step is to install the package with:

	make install

   If you are installing to a system-wide location you may need to
   temporarily acquite root access in order to perform this
   operation. A good way to do this is to use the sudo program:

	sudo make install
