The files in this directory provide simple line-editing and history
support for the standalone javascript engine, through the 'editline'
library.

The editline files used here have been modified to work with the js
build system and to quiet some compiler warnings, and also to remove
filename-completion support.

Mike McCabe, mccabe@netscape.com


The original README file distributed with the editline library follows.



This is a line-editing library.  It can be linked into almost any
program to provide command-line editing and recall.

It is call-compatible with the FSF readline library, but it is a
fraction of the size (and offers fewer features).  It does not use
standard I/O.  It is distributed under a "C News-like" copyright.

Configuration is done in the Makefile.  Type "make testit" to get
a small slow shell for testing.

An earlier version was distributed with Byron's rc.  Principal
changes over that version include:
	Faster.
	Is eight-bit clean (thanks to brendan@cs.widener.edu)
	Written in K&R C, but ANSI compliant (gcc all warnings)
	Propagates EOF properly; rc trip test now passes
	Doesn't need or use or provide memmove.
	More robust
	Calling sequence changed to be compatible with readline.
	Test program, new manpage, better configuration
	More system-independent; includes Unix and OS-9 support.

This contains some changes since the posting to comp.sources.misc:
	Bugfix for completion on absolute pathnames.
	Better handling of M-n versus showing raw 8bit chars.
	Better signal handling.
	Now supports termios/termio/sgttyb ioctl's.
	Add M-m command to toggle how 8bit data is displayed.

There is one known bug:
	History-searching redraws the line wrong if the text
	retrieved is shorter then the prompt.

Enjoy,
	Rich $alz
	<rsalz@osf.org>

 Copyright 1992,1993 Simmule Turner and Rich Salz.  All rights reserved.

 This software is not subject to any license of the American Telephone
 and Telegraph Company or of the Regents of the University of California.

 Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose on
 any computer system, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject
 to the following restrictions:
 1. The authors are not responsible for the consequences of use of this
    software, no matter how awful, even if they arise from flaws in it.
 2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented, either by
    explicit claim or by omission.  Since few users ever read sources,
    credits must appear in the documentation.
 3. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
    misrepresented as being the original software.  Since few users
    ever read sources, credits must appear in the documentation.
 4. This notice may not be removed or altered.
