ADDING OR REMOVING ENTRIES IN THE DICTIONARY:

To edit the dictionary use "edit-dictionary" and than copy the
resulting "en-US.dic" file info place.

UPGRADING TO A NEW UPSTREAM VERSION:

In order to upgrade to the latest dictionary some scripts found in
SCOWL (the source of the en_US Hunspell dictionary) are used.  The
en_US dictionary is also generated from the SCOWL source.

1) Unpack the tarball (tar.gz) version of the latest version of SCOWL
in the current directory and rename the directory from
"scowl-YYYY.MM.DD" to "scowl".  You can find the latest version at
http://wordlist.aspell.net/ or
http://sourceforge.net/projects/wordlist/files/SCOWL/

2) Run the script "./make-new-dict" to generate a new dictionary and
make sure it runs without any errors.

3) Do a quick sanity check on the resulting dictionary
"en_US-mozilla.dic".  For example make sure the size is about the same
(it should likely be slightly large) as the original dictionary.

4) Once everything is okay copy the new dictionary in place using
"./install-new-dict" and commit the changes.

NOTES ON UPGRADE PROCESS:

The dictionary upgrade scripts work by expanding (i.e. unmunching) the
affix compression dictionaries to create simple wordlists and use
those to generate a new dictionary.

The upgrade script expects the original upstream version to be kept in
the directory "orig".

The install script renames "orig" to "orig-bk" and copies the new
upstream version to "orig".  The install script also copies the
original Mozilla dictionary to the "mozilla-bk".

SUBMITTING MOZILLA SPECIFIC CHANGES UPSTREAM:

The upgrade script creates two files that can be reviewed and possible
submitted upstream.  The file "5-mozilla-removed" lists words that were
removed in the Mozilla dictionary and the file "5-mozilla-added"
contains the list of words that were added.  When submitting new words
upstream Mozilla specific words that are found in "5-mozilla-specific"
(expanded from mozilla-specific.txt) should likely be removed from the list.

ABOUT mozilla-specific.txt:

This file contains Mozilla-specific words that should not be submitted
upstream.  For example, "Firefox" goes here. (See bug 237921).

Note that the file 5-mozilla-specific is generated by expanding
mozilla-specific.txt and should not be edited directly.
